in our society we're encouraged to
aspire to ownership of a large home but
what happens when you own that large
home with a tennis court and swimming
pool and realized that it's not making
you happy today we've traveled to the
Hawke's Bay to meet a wonderful and
inspiring young family who traded in
society's dream for one of their own
[Music]
hello good to meet you mate yeah a nice
visit
hi elder oh yeah nice to meet you
welcome this container looks great so
tell me a little bit about how you
actually came to be living and a couple
of shipping containers
we bought this big fight bedroom house
and we were living in and working
constantly to and maintain it and we
just thought this isn't right
yeah we've bought our first house and it
was a two-bedroom well one and a half
bedroom like little deceased estate in
all condon we've renovated that and then
we found out we're having another baby
and so we decided we needed more space
and so we bought a three-bedroom house
and we were innovated there and sold it
and we moved to Hawke's Bay and the next
step was sort of like obviously a bigger
house cuz we were going to have another
baby and so we ended up with a five
bedrooms three bathrooms like formal
lounge it was a tennis court in the pool
and we sort of thought that the epitome
of what you're supposed to do I guess
and then after living and working that
house for about a year and we realized
how much work goes into mowing all those
lawns and uh it was just it was took up
all of our time effort it was busy and
was it was hard work but it was just
more the fact that we had like three
little children that just wanted to
spend time with us and we didn't have
time because we had to get these jobs
done like that's when I was on YouTube
and I saw your channel and like got
inspired I guess and yeah it hit it
lucky I was like set him down one night
we watched a few and he was like let's
go and so with a bit of grey paper
roughly weeding right designed the home
put the house on the market and yeah we
were going ho then people thought were
nuts but we're really happy it was a bit
more than we've ever made yeah well I
love to know that I'm partly responsible
for this variation because it's really
incredible now this is actually two
40-foot shipping containers that have
been slightly offset from one another
correct yep so they're too high cube
40-footers this one in particular we've
cut the roof right out and pitched it up
we've obviously used steel framing and
then inset with our container cutouts to
fill in the blanks and that is made a
good high pitched roof and that issue
works well because we have our solar
panels on the top there cuz
off-grid system you know it's wicks a
tree and you've mentioned that these
containers are off the grid can we talk
about that sure can we use a weed
basically we have a six kilowatt solar
system we've got 18 panels on the roof
and then we've got our 8 260 m power
batteries here for our storage battery
storage as you can see they're low
maintenance they're nice and duty we
have to go in there this is quite nice
so that is actually a huge solar system
we've got power tube in yeah that's
great
we've more power than we need really and
if we were connecting back into the grid
fit that would be cool but with the way
that we chose to live was just to have
enough to live and then the company that
put the system and for us we were the
first and so they were determined to
prove that it could be done and it could
be done really easily and it has it's
been great for us what about water
collection here we hit a water boy
connection right here so we've plumbed
into it so we're basically yeah
basically offered so we did the shipping
containers come from are they new
containers or did they have a life
before so these are wind and watertight
sticking here in containers so we've
purchased these obviously they've got a
bit of a history behind them and we've
just repurposed them there's a lot of
panel reading yes we're pretty lucky
that they came in pretty good condition
we've had before when doing water tight
and they were only just waters height
whereas these ones have been really they
were really quite good quality when we
caught them and the dents we feel just
add to character totally I absolutely
agree
yeah well the containers look amazing
from the outside and then really came to
get a tiller and see what you've done on
the inside Kylene oh so this is the duty
into the house and for a tiny house or
small house we thought that this was a
bit of a luxury but it has intervened
it's so practical the linen cupboard and
everything fits and enter here and just
a bit of extra pantry storage and then
washing machine and a little deep freeze
which means that like all the dirt comes
in comes in here everything just gets
washed and popped away without like
mucking up the rest of the house and the
buddha in the power and everything comes
through here so a real practical space
for us such a good idea including a
space like this because you're right
otherwise if you're going straight into
the house you don't get that break from
the weather you've got nowhere to put
sort of muddy and wet
yeah yeah and three kids this is really
a mudroom but yeah
weights well for us Tony does so this is
our front door come on oh this is lovely
you can definitely feel the additional
space that you get from actually having
those two containers stacked
side-by-side
oh sure keen it makes a huge difference
a it means that you can have a proper
lounge and a full sized kitchen in one
space which when you hit them just the
width of a single container didn't
really feel like good for either so tell
me about the design of the container and
how you've laid everything out okay so
you just walked right into our galley
kitchen so as you can see this is our
kitchen which is got ample storage
you'll notice when you walk throughout
the house we've used a lot of copper
which we we seem to love in where she
feel makes it feel warm so we love it
absolutely BETT sink is so beautiful is
that an old hot water cylinder yeah yeah
was originally it was a hot water
cylinder and then we scored it as a big
old plant pot I'll just count it down
fleet it and put a plug in it and he's
our kitchen sink and a tremendous amount
of bench space to work on here oh yeah
totally having a big kitchen was really
important to us cuz I love to cook but
we've got a young family in May I'm
sharing meals and you know it was kind
of one of the biggest design things for
us when we were laying out how big the
kitchen was gonna be it was it's a
luxury I guess but we had to have it and
then the way that the whole kitchen sort
of slides up against this wall you've
created a large open space for your
living room yeah it's worked really well
as you can see we got a nice good size a
comfortable lounge we didn't face the TV
we can turn around and face the fire and
winter you know a good couch makes Sur
makes a difference to good
good flow good radius on the corner
tells a feeling listen yes good score so
how easy was it actually to join the two
containers together and how does that
work for all of your electrical wiring
and plumbing and all of that sort of
stuff
yeah piece of cake really am because I'm
an engineer so it's my kind of trade so
it's just a case of having a whole
bridging it with some good structural
steel in this is this is bolted with it
with a bit of a gasket silicon sealant
through the flange faces and then we've
got a seal over the top and it's
made it completely watertight and it's
piece of cake really a lot of people are
quite worried about thermal bridging
when you're dealing with steel
structures
how does it work for sort of moisture
and insulation and everything in this
space we do spray from insulation for
inside the walls yeah yeah because steel
doesn't breathe you have to have a you
have to sort out their thermal break so
you can't have a cavity in the air where
condensation can condensate so you have
to use this non porous insulation so
it's the only proper way to do it and
then you've got the kids room through
their AC yeah kids room three kids one
room
very impressive yeah initially we score
all these doors from an old Albert hotel
which is an old hotel here in town
obviously struck them and split them in
half because we couldn't have one big
intrusive door and we didn't like the
looks of Kennedy slaughters there was
too new for us so we wanted use the
recycled thing so hints these nice
little doors so how did you lay the
space out to work for three kids well
we've got one girl when two boys so it
turned out that the mezzanine in the
middle with a door at the top with a
curtain that closes gives her enough
privacy and she's really happy and
content up there and then we made the
boys beds just slightly narrower than a
normal single bed so that they had a bit
of room to sort of tuck their toys
underneath and their shoes and want that
kind of stuff which means it's least
cost our own it's it really does work
the kids love it we're a bit worried
about having three kids and won't be
June but it turns out that they like
hanging out together so yeah it works a
treat actually yes it works and then
what do we have over here so this is a
bathroom what can I never look very nice
here you can really see the height of
the ceiling coming into its own can you
Oh totally it actually really works it
makes a small space seem big yeah so
we've got the air we've got the Japanese
soaked up there so we can able all three
kids in the bath at the same time if we
really wanted to which we quite often do
I love how you've continued the theme of
all of the copper fittings everywhere
because it just brings a lot of warmth
and kind of rustic character into space
definitely well that particular sink is
what actually started us on the out
copper you found a nice I don't trade me
you know we thought that this would be a
good kitchen sink it tuned up and what
oh it's a quite small I was a twenty
five bucks but it was like the beginning
of a very expensive um
fitting for the house because I think
everything had to be copper because I
love
so much I wanted to use it and then
you've got a composting toilet here as
well yes
composting loo so not quite a bucket
with sawdust one has got a ventilation
system and it was what we could find on
the market through nearly four years ago
now it's been so great it's really a lot
easier to use than we thought it was
going to be a lot less smelly than we
thought it was gonna be and yeah we
wouldn't go back should we explore the
other side of the house
yeah we've got a drying rack above the
fireplace and for sake of winter good to
dry you your clothes inside and I have
only law just freeing up the floor space
it makes such a big difference in the
house is so warm when you're the fire
going that in two hours washings drying
job done excellent yeah and then over
here is our dining room this was
supposed to be the master bedroom but
sharing meal at the end of the day us
all together was huge for us right yeah
and that's why we've been up with a
smaller room for us and a bigger dining
and both which has like loads of storage
it's just leaping bags and blankets and
games and a bookshelf and yeah and then
we get the staircase which makes for a
great wardrobe so will your clothes are
stored in here yeah well all the hanging
sort of clothes we've got to see the
drawers upstairs but yes and tell me
about the design of your sleeping loft
well there wasn't a lot of design in it
because I said we have to have like to
put to make it workable and then we went
from there but also the clearance from
the top from the outside to transport it
around had to be like we will only be
able to go so high yes
so that resists our touch yeah basically
there the overall height has set for
legal height on a low loader transporter
and that's what's it L touching the roof
yeah it feels like up the years at like
a it feels like a safe closed in space
which works well for sleeping and then
down here and there's plenty of light
and air coming through and yeah it was a
good compromise and then you've got this
lovely kind of open area to your outdoor
space as well yeah we felt it was quite
important when you're living a bit
smaller to him
indoor/outdoor flight because you live
quite differently say big bifold doors
they're opening by Forbes on the other
side and it just creates lovely space so
how long have you been living in this
home now nearly three years yeah he's
right in like three years
yeah I was quickly ahead hey is this
gone really it's gone really fast as
they actually the longest think we'd
love to Nene house since we've been
married
yeah yeah we've been married over T
Newseum it's very easy to lemon
definitely it's a very easy live
low-maintenance simple love it you've
moved into this home from a much larger
home yeah what was your downsizing
process like it wasn't too hard I went
to work and also did it we had five we
had five bedrooms to downsize into sort
of technically one and a half so we
trade Mead and gave away and just got
rid of so so much stuff and on a whole
downsizing was very freeing living in
this house has completely changed our
lives right oh so here we did it as a
test to see how much space we would need
and we understood that we it would have
to change and evolve as our children got
older but what we've realized is that we
don't need that massive McMansion
anymore like we're really happy to live
with less and we and yeah our quality of
life is just so much better because of
it definitely so what about the cost of
building this home this costs us about
150,000 that's all materials and parts
that obviously there doesn't include a
lot of our labor and things like that
so yeah it was nine months of hard slog
building it because everything was done
like we just we hadn't been inside
another container house until we were
pretty much finished and I hadn't
actually been inside a container and all
the ones that these ones arrived at
MIT's yard and I opened up the door and
I was so hot in here and it's absolutely
tiny what have we done but still like
made it work yeah totally
well there's no doubt about it you have
managed to turn these two 40-foot
containers into an incredible home for
your family thank you so much for
sharing over thank you keys for coming
thank you for coming
yeah looking at a shipping container it
really is quite utilitarian it's a cold
hard metal box and quite far removed
from something that you'd consider homey
this couple though have taken a couple
of those boxes and truly turned them
into something beautiful using salvaged
materials and Timbers all to create a
wonderful family home
[Music]
you